## Telemetry Prologue
 * Before starting your tests, go to General settings, enable "Diagnostic data" and "Enable viewing" and restart PowerToys.

## Telemetry Epilogue
 * After finishing your tests, go to General settings, press Diagnostic data viewer and check if you have xml files for the utilities you've tested and if it looks like the events in those xml files were generated by the actions you did with the utilities you've tested.

## Screen Ruler
 * Enable Screen Ruler. Then:
   - [√] Press the activation shortcut and verify the toolbar appears.
   - [√] Press the activation shortcut again and verify the toolbar disappears.
   - [√] Disable Screen Ruler and verify that the activation shortuct no longer activates the utility.
   - [√] Enable Screen Ruler and press the activation shortcut and verify the toolbar appears.
   - [√] Select the close button in the toolbar and verify it closes the utility.
 * With Screen Ruler enabled and activated:
   - [√] Use the Bounds utility to measure a zone by dragging with left-click. Verify right click dismisses the utility and that the measurement was copied into the clipboard.
   - [√] Use the Spacing utility to measure something and verify that left-click copies the measurement to the clipboard. Verify that right-click dismisses the utility.
   - [√] Use the Horizontal Spacing utility to measure something and verify that left-click copies the measurement to the clipboard. Verify that right-click dismisses the utility.
   - [√] Use the Vertical Spacing utility to measure something and verify that left-click copies the measurement to the clipboard. Verify that right-click dismisses the utility.
   - [√] While using a Spacing utility, verify that using the mouse scroll wheel will adjust pixel color tolerance while measuring.
   - [√] Open mspaint and draw 1px-thick straight line, also click with a pencil to draw a single pixel. In any Spacing mode, verify that one of line's dimension is 1, and pixel's dimensions are 1x1.
 * In a multi-monitor setup with different dpis on each monitor:
   - [√] Verify that the utilities work well on each monitor, with continuous mode on and off.
   - [√] Without any window opened and a solid color as your background, verify the horizontal spacing matches the monitor's pixel width.
   - [√] Move your mouse back and forth around the edge of two monitors really quickly in each mode - verify nothing is broken.
   
 * Test the different settings and verify they are applied:
   - [√] Activation shortcut
   - [√] Continous mode
   - [√] Per color channel edge detection
   - [√] Pixel tolerance for edge detection
   - [√] Draw feet on cross
   - [√] Line color

   ## Shortcut Guide
 * Run PowerToys as user:
   - [√] Verify `Win + Shift + /` opens the guide
   - [√] Change the hotkey to a different shortcut (e.g. `Win + /`) and verify it works
   - [√] Set Shortcut Guide to start with a Windows key press and verify it works.
 * Restore the `Win + Shift + /` hotkey.
   - [√] Open the guide and close it pressing `Esc`
   - [√] Open the guide and close it pressing and releasing the `Win` key
 * With PowerToys running as a user, open an elevated app and keep it on foreground:
   - [√] Verify `Win + Shift + /` opens the guide
   - [√] Verify some of the shortcuts shown in the guide work and the guide is closed when pressed