## Telemetry Prologue

- Before starting your tests, go to General settings, enable "Diagnostic data" and "Enable viewing" and restart PowerToys.

## Telemetry Epilogue

- After finishing your tests, go to General settings, press Diagnostic data viewer and check if you have xml files for the utilities you've tested and if it looks like the events in those xml files were generated by the actions you did with the utilities you've tested.
- I didn't pass all the test cases when I tested V0.89.

## Crop And Lock
 * Thumbnail mode
   - [x] Test with win32 app
   - [x] Test with packaged app
   
 * Reparent mode (there are known issues where reparent mode doesn't work for some apps)
   - [x] Test with win32 app
   - [ ] Test with packaged app

## Always on Top

 - [x] Pin/unpin a window, verify it's topmost/not topmost.
 - [x] Pin/unpin a window, verify the border appeared/disappeared.
 - [ ] Switch virtual desktop, verify border doesn't show up on another desktop.
 - [x] Minimize and maximize pinned window, verify the border looks as usual.
 - [x] Change border color and thickness.
 - [x] Verify if sound is played according to the sound setting.
 - [x] Exclude app, try to pin it.
 - [x] Exclude already pinned app, verify it was unpinned.
 - [ ] Try to pin the app in the Game Mode.

## FancyZones Editor

- [x] Open editor from the settings
- [x] Open editor with a shortcut
- [x] Create a new layout (grid and canvas)
- [x] Duplicate a template and a custom layout
- [x] Delete layout
- [x] Edit templates (number of zones, spacing, distance to highlight adjacent zones). Verify after reopening the editor that saved settings are kept the same.
- [x] Edit canvas layout: zones size and position, create or delete zones.
- [x] Edit grid layout: split, merge, resize zones.
- [x] Check `Save and apply` and `Cancel` buttons behavior after editing.
- [x] Assign a layout to each monitor.
- [ ] Assign keys to quickly switch layouts (custom layouts only), `Win + Ctrl + Alt + number`.
- [x] Assign horizontal and vertical default layouts
- [x] Test duplicate layout focus
   * Select any layout X in 'Templates' or 'Custom' section by click left mouse button
   * Mouse right button click on any layout Y in 'Templates' or 'Custom' sections
   * Duplicate it by clicking 'Create custom layout' (Templates section) or 'Duplicate' in 'Custom' section
   * Expect the layout Y is duplicated