## Telemetry Prologue
 * Before starting your tests, go to General settings, enable "Diagnostic data" and "Enable viewing" and restart PowerToys.

## Telemetry Epilogue
 * After finishing your tests, go to General settings, press Diagnostic data viewer and check if you have xml files for the utilities you've tested and if it looks like the events in those xml files were generated by the actions you did with the utilities you've tested.

## Localization
 Change the Windows language to a language different than English. Then verify if the following screens change their language:
 - [x] Hosts File Editor
 - [x] File Locksmith

## Hosts File Editor
 * Launch Host File Editor:
   - [x] Verify the application exits if "Quit" is clicked on the initial warning.
   - [x] Launch Host File Editor again and click "Accept". The module should not close. Open the hosts file (`%WinDir%\System32\Drivers\Etc`) in a text editor that auto-refreshes so you can see the changes applied by the editor in real time. (VSCode is an editor like this, for example)
   - [x] Enable and disable lines and verify they are applied to the file.
   - [x] Add a new entry and verify it's applied.
   - [x] Add manually an entry with more than 9 hosts in hosts file (Windows limitation) and verify it is split correctly on loading and the info bar is shown.
   - [x] Try to filter for lines and verify you can find them.
   - [x] Click the "Open hosts file" button and verify it opens in your default editor. (likely Notepad)
 * Test the different settings and verify they are applied:
   - [x] Launch as Administrator.
   - [x] Show a warning at startup.
   - [x] Additional lines position.

## File Locksmith
 * Start the PowerToys installer executable and let it stay in the initial screen.
   - [x] Right-click the executable file, select "Unlock with File Locksmith" and verify it shows up. (2 entries will show, since the installer starts two processes)
   - [x] End the tasks in File Locksmith UI and verify that closes the installer.
   - [x] Start the installer executable again and press the Refresh button in File Locksmith UI. It should find new processes using the files.
   - [x] Close the installer window and verify the processes are delisted from the File Locksmith UI. Close the window
 * Start the PowerToys installer executable again and let it stay in the initial screen.
   - [x] Right click the directory where the executable is located, select "Unlock with File Locksmith?" and verify it shows up. 
   - [x] Right click the drive where the executable is located, select "Unlock with File Locksmith?" and verify it shows up. You can close the PowerToys installer now.
 * Restart PowerToys as admin.
   - [x] Right click "Program Files", select "Unlock with File Locksmith?" and verify "PowerToys.exe" doesn't show up.
   - [x] Press the File Locksmith "Restart as an administrator" button and verify "PowerToys.exe" shows up.
 - [x] Right-click the drive where Windows is installed, select "Unlock with File Locksmith?" and scroll down and up, verify File Locksmith doesn't crash with all those entries being shown. Repeat after clicking the File Locksmith "Restart as an administrator" button.
 - [x] Disable File Locksmith in Settings and verify the context menu entry no longer appears.