## Telemetry Prologue
 * Before starting your tests, go to General settings, enable "Diagnostic data" and "Enable viewing" and restart PowerToys.

## Telemetry Epilogue
 * After finishing your tests, go to General settings, press Diagnostic data viewer and check if you have xml files for the utilities you've tested and if it looks like the events in those xml files were generated by the actions you did with the utilities you've tested.

## Keyboard Manager

UI Validation:

  - [x] In Remap keys, add and remove rows to validate those buttons. While the blank rows are present, pressing the OK button should result in a warning dialog that some mappings are invalid.
  - [x] Using only the Type buttons, for both the remap windows, try adding keys/shortcuts in all the columns. The right-side column in both windows should accept both keys and shortcuts, while the left-side column will accept only keys or only shortcuts for Remap keys and Remap shortcuts respectively. Validate that the Hold Enter and Esc accessibility features work as expected.
  - [x] Using the drop downs try to add key to key, key to shortcut, shortcut to key and shortcut to shortcut remapping and ensure that you are able to select remapping both by using mouse and by keyboard navigation.
  - [x] Validate that remapping can be saved by pressing the OK button and re-opening the windows loads existing remapping.

Remapping Validation:

For all the remapping below, try pressing and releasing the remapped key/shortcut and pressing and holding it. Try different behaviors like releasing the modifier key before the action key and vice versa.
  - [x] Test key to key remapping
    - A->B
    - Ctrl->A
    - A->Ctrl
    - Win->B (make sure Start menu doesn't appear accidentally)
    - B->Win (make sure Start menu doesn't appear accidentally)
    - A->Disable
    - Win->Disable
  - [x] Test key to shortcut remapping
    - A->Ctrl+V
    - B->Win+A
  - [x] Test shortcut to shortcut remapping
    - Ctrl+A->Ctrl+V
    - Win+A->Ctrl+V
    - Ctrl+V->Win+A
    - Win+A->Win+F
  - [x] Test shortcut to key remapping
    - Ctrl+A->B
    - Ctrl+A->Win
    - Win+A->B
  * Test app-specific remaps
    - [x] Similar remaps to above with Edge (entered as `msedge`), VSCode (entered as `code`) and cmd. For cmd try admin and non-admin (requires PT to run as admin)
    - [x] Try some cases where focus is lost due to the shortcut. Example remapping to Alt+Tab or Alt+F4
  - [x] Test switching between remapping while holding down modifiers - Eg. Ctrl+D->Ctrl+A and Ctrl+E->Ctrl+V, hold Ctrl and press D followed by E. Should select all and paste over it in a text editor. Similar steps for Windows key shortcuts.

## Quick Accent
 * Enable Quick Accent and open notepad. Then:
   - [x] Press `a` and the left or right arrow and verify the accent menu appears and adds the accented letter you've selected. Use left and arrow keys to cycle through the options.
   - [x] Press `a` and the space key and verify the accent menu appears and adds the accented letter you've selected. Use <kbd>Space</kbd> to navigate forward, <kbd>Space</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> to navigate backward.
   - [x] Disable Quick Accent and verify you can no longer add accented characters through Quick Accent.
 * Test the different settings and verify they are applied:
   - [x] Activation key
   - [x] Language (for example, Currency has no accents for 'a' but has for 's')
   - [x] Toolbar position (test every option, some had issues before)
   - [x] Input delay
   - [x] Exclude some apps. Verify that Quick Accent is not activated for them.
   - [x] Sort characters by frequency.
   - [x] Always start on the first character when using left/right arrows as activation method.
