## Telemetry Prologue
 * Before starting your tests, go to General settings, enable "Diagnostic data" and "Enable viewing" and restart PowerToys.

## Telemetry Epilogue
 * After finishing your tests, go to General settings, press Diagnostic data viewer and check if you have xml files for the utilities you've tested and if it looks like the events in those xml files were generated by the actions you did with the utilities you've tested.

## Localization
 Change the Windows language to a language different than English. Then verify if the following screens change their language:
 - [√] Settings
 - [√] OOBE (What's new)
 - [√] Power Rename (new WinUI 3 may not be localized)
 - [√] PowerToys Run ("Start typing" string is localized, for example)
 - [√] Shortcut Guide (Windows controls are localized)
 - [!] Command Palette

 ## Screen Ruler
 * Enable Screen Ruler. Then:
   - [√] Press the activation shortcut and verify the toolbar appears.
   - [√] Press the activation shortcut again and verify the toolbar disappears.
   - [√] Disable Screen Ruler and verify that the activation shortuct no longer activates the utility.
   - [√] Enable Screen Ruler and press the activation shortcut and verify the toolbar appears.
   - [√] Select the close button in the toolbar and verify it closes the utility.
 * With Screen Ruler enabled and activated:
   - [√] Use the Bounds utility to measure a zone by dragging with left-click. Verify right click dismisses the utility and that the measurement was copied into the clipboard.
   - [√] Use the Spacing utility to measure something and verify that left-click copies the measurement to the clipboard. Verify that right-click dismisses the utility.
   - [√] Use the Horizontal Spacing utility to measure something and verify that left-click copies the measurement to the clipboard. Verify that right-click dismisses the utility.
   - [√] Use the Vertical Spacing utility to measure something and verify that left-click copies the measurement to the clipboard. Verify that right-click dismisses the utility.
   - [√] While using a Spacing utility, verify that using the mouse scroll wheel will adjust pixel color tolerance while measuring.
   - [√] Open mspaint and draw 1px-thick straight line, also click with a pencil to draw a single pixel. In any Spacing mode, verify that one of line's dimension is 1, and pixel's dimensions are 1x1.
 * In a multi-monitor setup with different dpis on each monitor:
   - [√] Verify that the utilities work well on each monitor, with continuous mode on and off.
   - [√] Without any window opened and a solid color as your background, verify the horizontal spacing matches the monitor's pixel width.
   - [√] Move your mouse back and forth around the edge of two monitors really quickly in each mode - verify nothing is broken.
   
 * Test the different settings and verify they are applied:
   - [√] Activation shortcut
   - [√] Continous mode
   - [√] Per color channel edge detection
   - [√] Pixel tolerance for edge detection
   - [√] Draw feet on cross
   - [√] Line color

## Shortcut Guide
 * Run PowerToys as user:
   - [√] Verify `Win + Shift + /` opens the guide
   - [√] Change the hotkey to a different shortcut (e.g. `Win + /`) and verify it works
   - [√] Set Shortcut Guide to start with a Windows key press and verify it works.
 * Restore the `Win + Shift + /` hotkey.
   - [√] Open the guide and close it pressing `Esc`
   - [√] Open the guide and close it pressing and releasing the `Win` key
 * With PowerToys running as a user, open an elevated app and keep it on foreground:
   - [√] Verify `Win + Shift + /` opens the guide
   - [√] Verify some of the shortcuts shown in the guide work and the guide is closed when pressed

## PowerRename
- [√] Check if disable and enable of the module works. (On Win11) Check if both old context menu and Win11 tier1 context menu items are present when module is enabled.
- [√] Check that with the `Show icon on context menu` icon is shown and vice versa.
- [√] Check if `Appear only in extended context menu` works.
- [√] Enable/disable autocomplete.
- [√] Enable/disable `Show values from last use`.
* Select several files and folders and check PowerRename options:
    - [√] Make Uppercase/Lowercase/Titlecase (could be selected only one at the time)
    - [√] Exclude Folders/Files/Subfolder Items (could be selected several)
    - [√] Item Name/Extension Only (one at the time)
    - [√] Enumerate Items. Test advanced enumeration using different values for every field ${start=10,increment=2,padding=4}.
    - [√] Case Sensitive
    - [√] Match All Occurrences. If checked, all matches of text in the `Search` field will be replaced with the Replace text. Otherwise, only the first instance of the `Search` for text in the file name will be replaced (left to right).
    * Use regular expressions
        - [√] Search with an expression (e.g. `(.*).png`)
        - [√] Replace with an expression (e.g. `foo_$1.png`)
        - [√] Replace using file creation date and time (e.g. `$hh-$mm-$ss-$fff` `$DD_$MMMM_$YYYY`)
        - [√] Turn on `Use Boost library` and test with Perl Regular Expression Syntax (e.g. `(?<=t)est`)
    * File list filters.
        - [√] In the `preview` window uncheck some items to exclude them from renaming.

## PowerToys Run

 * Enable PT Run in settings and ensure that the hotkey brings up PT Run
   - [√] when PowerToys is running unelevated on start-up
   - [√] when PowerToys is running as admin on start-up
   - [√] when PowerToys is restarted as admin, by clicking the restart as admin button in settings.
 * Check that each of the plugins is working:
   - [√] Program - launch a Win32 application
   - [√] Program - launch a Win32 application as admin
   - [√] Program - launch a packaged application`
   - [√] Calculator - ensure a mathematical input returns a correct response and is copied on enter.
   - [√] Windows Search - open a file on the disk.
   - [√] Windows Search - find a file and copy file path.
   - [√] Windows Search - find a file and open containing folder.
   - [√] Shell - execute a command. Enter the action keyword `>`, followed by the query, both with and without space (e.g. `> ping localhost`).
   - [√] Folder - Search and open a sub-folder on entering the path.
   - [√] Uri - launch a web page on entering the uri.
   - [√] Window walker - Switch focus to a running window.
   - [√] Service - start, stop, restart windows service. Enter the action keyword `!` to get the list of services.
   - [√] Registry - navigate through the registry tree and open registry editor. Enter the action keyword `:` to get the root keys.
   - [√] Registry - navigate through the registry tree and copy key path.
   - [√] System - test `lock`.
   - [√] System - test `empty recycle bin`.
   - [√] System - test `shutdown`.

 - [√] Disable PT Run and ensure that the hotkey doesn't bring up PT Run.

 - [√] Test tab navigation.

 * Test Plugin Manager
   - [√] Enable/disable plugins and verify changes are picked up by PT Run
   - [√] Change `Direct activation phrase` and verify changes are picked up by PT Run
   - [√] Change `Include in global result` and verify changes picked up by PT Run
   - [√] Clear `Direct activation phrase` and uncheck `Include in global result`. Verify a warning message is shown.
   - [√] Disable all plugins and verify the warning message is shown.

## GPO
 * Copy the "PowerToys.admx" file to your Policy Definition template folder. (Example: C:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions) and copy the "PowerToys.adml" file to the matching language folder in your Policy Definition folder. (Example: C:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions\en-US)
   - [√] Open the "Local Group Policy Editor" on Windows and verify there is a "Microsoft PowerToys" folder in Administrative Templates for both Computer Configuration and User Configuration.
 * In GPO, disable a module that can run as a standalone (FancyZones sounds good for this). Restart PowerToys.
   - [√] Verify the module is not enabled.
   - [√] Open settings and verify the module is not enabled and you can't enable it.
   - [√] Try to open FancyZones Editor directly from the install folder and verify it doesn't run and adds a message to the log saying it didn't run because of GPO.
   - [√] Verify the module can't be launched from the quick launcher system tray flyout launcher screen (FancyZones editor in this case).
   - [√] Verify the module can't be enabled/disabled from the quick launcher system tray flyout.
 * In GPO, enable a module that can run as a standalone (FancyZones sounds good for this). Restart PowerToys.
   - [√] Verify the module is enabled.
   - [√] Open settings and verify the module is enabled and you can't disable it.
   - [√] Verify the module can't be enabled/disabled from the quick launcher system tray flyout.
 * In GPO, try to set different settings in the Computer and User Configurations for a PowerToy. Restart PowerToys.
   - [√] Verify that the setting in Computer Configuration has priority over the setting in User Configuration.
 * In GPO, disable a module that has a context menu entry (File Locksmith sounds good for this). Restart PowerToys.
   - [√] Verify the module is not enabled. (No context menu entry)
   - [√] Open settings and verify the module is not enabled and you can't enable it.
   - [] Try to open File Locksmith directly from the install folder and verify it doesn't run and adds a message to the log saying it didn't run because of GPO.
 * In GPO, disable a module that is a Preview Handler (Markdown Preview is good for this). Restart PowerToys.
   - [√] Verify the module is not enabled. (Markdown files won't appear in the preview pane)
   - [√] Open settings and verify the module is not enabled and you can't enable it.
 * Remember to reset all you Settings to Not Configured after the tests, both in Conputer and User Configurations.

## Command Not Found
 * Go to Command Not Found module settings
 - [√] If you have PowerShell 7.4 installed, confirm that Install PowerShell 7.4 button is not visible and PowerShell 7.4 is shown as detected. If you don't have PowerShell 7.4, Install it by clicking the button and confirm that it's properly installed. Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors.
 - [√] If you have Microsoft.WinGet.Client installed, confirm that Install Microsoft.WinGet.Client button is not visible and Microsoft.WinGet.Client is shown as detected. If you don't have Microsoft.WinGet.Client, Install it by clicking the button and confirm that it's properly installed. Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors.
 - [√] Install the Command Not Found module. Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors. Check PowerShell 7 $PROFILE file and confirm Import-Module command is added there. Start new PowerShell 7.4 session and execute "powertoys" (or "atom"). Confirm that suggestion is given to install powertoys (or atom) winget package. (If suggestion is not given, try running the same command few more times, it might take some time for the first time to load the module). Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors.
 - [√] Uninstall the module. Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors. Check PowerShell 7 $PROFILE file and confirm Import-Module command is removed. Start new PowerShell 7.4 session and confirm no errors are shown on start.
 - [√] Install module again. Uninstall PowerToys. Check PowerShell 7 $PROFILE file and confirm Import-Module command is removed after installer is done.

## DSC
 * You need to have some prerequisites installed:
   - PowerShell >= 7.2 .
   - PSDesiredStateConfiguration 2.0.7 or higher `Install-Module -Name PSDesiredStateConfiguration`.
   - WinGet [version v1.6.2631 or later](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/releases). (You'll likely have this one already)
 * Open a PowerShell 7 instance and navigate to the sample scripts from PowerToys (`src/dsc/Microsoft.PowerToys.Configure/examples/`).
   - [x] Run `winget configure .\disableAllModules.dsc.yaml`. Open PowerToys Settings and verify all modules are disabled.
   - [x] Run `winget configure .\enableAllModules.dsc.yaml`. Open PowerToys Settings and verify all modules are enabled.
   - [√] Run `winget configure .\configureLauncherPlugins.dsc.yaml`. Open PowerToys Settings and verify all PowerToys Run plugins are enabled, and the Program plugin is not global and its Activation Keyword has changed to "P:".
   - [√] Run `winget configure .\configuration.dsc.yaml`. Open PowerToys Settings the Settings have been applied. File Locksmith is disabled. Shortcut Guide is disabled with an overlay opacity set to 50. FancyZones is enabled with the Editor hotkey set to "Shift+Ctrl+Alt+F".
   - [√] If you run a winget configure command above and PowerToys is running, it will eventually close and automatically reopen after the configuration process is done.
   - [√] If you run a winget configure command above and PowerToys is not running, it won't automatically reopen after the configuration process is done.

## Command Palette
 * Check if Command Palette successfully install/uninstall with PowerToys.
   - [√] Install PowerToys. Then check if Command Palette exist in the System Settings/App/Installed Apps.
   - [] UnInstall PowerToys. Then check if Command Palette doesn't exist in the System Settings/App/Installed Apps.
 * Enable Command Palette in settings and ensure that the hotkey brings up Command Palette
   - [√] when PowerToys is running unelevated on start-up
   - [√] when PowerToys is running as admin on start-up
   - [√] when PowerToys is restarted as admin, by clicking the restart as admin button in settings.
 * Check that each of the plugins is working:
   - [√] Installed Apps - launch a Win32 application
   - [√] Installed Apps - launch a Win32 application as admin
   - [√] Installed Apps - launch a packaged application
   - [√] Calculator - ensure a mathematical input returns a correct response and is copied on enter.
   - [√] File Search - open a file on the disk.
   - [x] File Search - find a file and copy file path.
   - [√] File Search - find a file and open containing folder.
   - [√] Run Commands - execute a command. (e.g. `ping google.com`).
   - [√] Windows Walker - Switch to another opening window.
   - [√] Windows Walker - Switch to another opening window when powertoys run as admin.
   - [x] WinGet - Search and install application through WinGet. (eg. `vscode`)
   - [√] Web Search - Search anything by this extension.
   - [√] Windows Terminal Profiles - Open profile.
   - [√] Windows Terminal Profiles - Open profile as Admin.
   - [√] Windows Settings - Open settings from extension.
   - [√] Registry - navigate through the registry tree and open registry editor. Enter the action keyword `:` to get the root keys.
   - [√] Registry - navigate through the registry tree and copy key path.
   - [√] Windows Service - start, stop, restart windows service.
   - [√] Time And Date - type `now`, `year`, `week` and verify the result is correct. 
   - [√] Windows System Command - test `lock`.
   - [√] Windows System Command - test `empty recycle bin`.
   - [] Windows System Command - test `shutdown`.
   - [√] Windows System Command - Click your network adapter item and paste the result at notepad.
   - [√] Bookmarks - Add bookmarks to command palette.
   - [√] Bookmarks - Open your bookmarks (in Command Palette).
 - [√] Disable Command Palette and ensure that the hotkey doesn't bring up Command Palette.
 - [√] Test tab navigation.
 * Test Extensions Manager
   - [√] Enable/disable extensions and verify changes are picked up by Command Palette
   - [√] Change `Global hot key` and verify changes are picked up by Command Palette
   - [√] Change `Alias` and verify changes picked up by Command Palette
   - [x] Disable all extensions and verify the warning message is shown (Currently not support).