## Telemetry Prologue
 * Before starting your tests, go to General settings, enable "Diagnostic data" and "Enable viewing" and restart PowerToys.

## Telemetry Epilogue
 * After finishing your tests, go to General settings, press Diagnostic data viewer and check if you have xml files for the utilities you've tested and if it looks like the events in those xml files were generated by the actions you did with the utilities you've tested.

## Install tests
 * install a **previous version** on a clean machine (a clean machine doesn't have the `%localappdata%\Microsoft\PowerToys` folder)
 * open the Settings and for each module change at least one option
 * open the FancyZones editor and create two custom layouts:
    * a canvas layout with 2 zones, use unicode chars in the layout's name
    * one from grid template using 4 zones and splitting one zone
    * apply the custom canvas layout to the primary desktop
    * create a virtual desktop and apply the custom grid layout
    * if you have a second monitor apply different templates layouts for the primary desktop and for the second virtual desktop
 * install the new version (it will uninstall the old version and install the new version)
 - [ ] verify the settings are preserved and FancyZones configuration is still the same
 - [ ] test installing as SYSTEM (LocalSystem account)
   * Download PsTools from https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/psexec
   * Run PowerToys installer with psexec tool `psexec.exe -sid <path_to_installer_exe`
   * Brief check if all modules are working

 * PER-USER and PER-MACHINE TESTS:
   * Install **previous version** on a clean machine and update with new per-machine version. Ensure that it is installed in Program files and that registry entries are under **HKLM**/Software/Classes/PowerToys. Go trhough different modules and ensure that they are working correctly.
   * Try installing per-user version over already installed per-machine version and ensure that proper error message is shown.
   * Remove PowerToys and install per-user version. Ensure that it is installed in <APPDATA>/Local/PowerToys and that registry entries are under **HKCU**/Software/Classes/PowerToys. Go trhough different modules and ensure that they are working correctly.
   * Create a new user and install per-user version there as well. Go trhough different modules and ensure that they are working correctly. Ensure that changing settings for one user does not change settings of other user.

## Functional tests

 Regressions:
 - [ ] https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/issues/1414#issuecomment-593529038
 - [ ] https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/issues/1524

## Localization
 Change the Windows language to a language different than English. Then verify if the following screens change their language:
 - [ ] System tray menu items
 - [ ] Settings
 - [ ] OOBE (What's new)
 - [ ] Keyboard Manager Editor
 - [ ] Color Picker (check the tooltips)
 - [ ] FancyZones Editor
 - [ ] Power Rename (new WinUI 3 may not be localized)
 - [ ] PowerToys Run ("Start typing" string is localized, for example)
 - [ ] Image Resizer
 - [ ] Shortcut Guide (Windows controls are localized)
 - [ ] File Explorer menu entries for Image Resizer, Power Rename and FileLocksmith
 - [ ] Hosts File Editor
 - [ ] File Locksmith
 - [ ] Registry Preview
 - [ ] Environment Variables


### Appearance
- [ ] Change colors, opacity and `Show zone number` options. Verify they're applied.

## PowerRename
- [x] Check if disable and enable of the module works. (On Win11) Check if both old context menu and Win11 tier1 context menu items are present when module is enabled.
- [x] Check that with the `Show icon on context menu` icon is shown and vice versa.
- [x] Check if `Appear only in extended context menu` works.
- [x] Enable/disable autocomplete.
- [x] Enable/disable `Show values from last use`.
* Select several files and folders and check PowerRename options:
    - [x] Make Uppercase/Lowercase/Titlecase (could be selected only one at the time)
    - [x] Exclude Folders/Files/Subfolder Items (could be selected several)
    - [x] Item Name/Extension Only (one at the time)
    - [x] Enumerate Items. Test advanced enumeration using different values for every field ${start=10,increment=2,padding=4}.
    - [x] Case Sensitive
    - [x] Match All Occurrences. If checked, all matches of text in the `Search` field will be replaced with the Replace text. Otherwise, only the first instance of the `Search` for text in the file name will be replaced (left to right).
    * Use regular expressions
        - [x] Search with an expression (e.g. `(.*).png`)
        - [x] Replace with an expression (e.g. `foo_$1.png`)
        - [x] Replace using file creation date and time (e.g. `$hh-$mm-$ss-$fff` `$DD_$MMMM_$YYYY`)
        - [x] Turn on `Use Boost library` and test with Perl Regular Expression Syntax (e.g. `(?<=t)est`)
    * File list filters.
        - [x] In the `preview` window uncheck some items to exclude them from renaming.

## PowerToys Run

 * Enable PT Run in settings and ensure that the hotkey brings up PT Run
   - [x] when PowerToys is running unelevated on start-up
   - [x] when PowerToys is running as admin on start-up
   - [x] when PowerToys is restarted as admin, by clicking the restart as admin button in settings.
 * Check that each of the plugins is working:
   - [x] Program - launch a Win32 application
   - [x] Program - launch a Win32 application as admin
   - [x] Program - launch a packaged application`
   - [x] Calculator - ensure a mathematical input returns a correct response and is copied on enter.
   - [x] Windows Search - open a file on the disk.
   - [x] Windows Search - find a file and copy file path.
   - [x] Windows Search - find a file and open containing folder.
   - [x] Shell - execute a command. Enter the action keyword `>`, followed by the query, both with and without space (e.g. `> ping localhost`).
   - [x] Folder - Search and open a sub-folder on entering the path.
   - [x] Uri - launch a web page on entering the uri.
   - [x] Window walker - Switch focus to a running window.
   - [x] Service - start, stop, restart windows service. Enter the action keyword `!` to get the list of services.
   - [x] Registry - navigate through the registry tree and open registry editor. Enter the action keyword `:` to get the root keys.
   - [x] Registry - navigate through the registry tree and copy key path.
   - [x] System - test `lock`.
   - [x] System - test `empty recycle bin`.
   - [x] System - test `shutdown`.

 - [x] Disable PT Run and ensure that the hotkey doesn't bring up PT Run.

 - [x] Test tab navigation.

 * Test Plugin Manager
   - [x] Enable/disable plugins and verify changes are picked up by PT Run
   - [x] Change `Direct activation phrase` and verify changes are picked up by PT Run
   - [x] Change `Include in global result` and verify changes picked up by PT Run
   - [x] Clear `Direct activation phrase` and uncheck `Include in global result`. Verify a warning message is shown.
   - [x] Disable all plugins and verify the warning message is shown.

## GPO
 * Copy the "PowerToys.admx" file to your Policy Definition template folder. (Example: C:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions) and copy the "PowerToys.adml" file to the matching language folder in your Policy Definition folder. (Example: C:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions\en-US)
   - [ ] Open the "Local Group Policy Editor" on Windows and verify there is a "Microsoft PowerToys" folder in Administrative Templates for both Computer Configuration and User Configuration.
 * In GPO, disable a module that can run as a standalone (FancyZones sounds good for this). Restart PowerToys.
   - [ ] Verify the module is not enabled.
   - [ ] Open settings and verify the module is not enabled and you can't enable it.
   - [ ] Try to open FancyZones Editor directly from the install folder and verify it doesn't run and adds a message to the log saying it didn't run because of GPO.
   - [ ] Verify the module can't be launched from the quick launcher system tray flyout launcher screen (FancyZones editor in this case).
   - [ ] Verify the module can't be enabled/disabled from the quick launcher system tray flyout.
 * In GPO, enable a module that can run as a standalone (FancyZones sounds good for this). Restart PowerToys.
   - [ ] Verify the module is enabled.
   - [ ] Open settings and verify the module is enabled and you can't disable it.
   - [ ] Verify the module can't be enabled/disabled from the quick launcher system tray flyout.
 * In GPO, try to set different settings in the Computer and User Configurations for a PowerToy. Restart PowerToys.
   - [ ] Verify that the setting in Computer Configuration has priority over the setting in User Configuration.
 * In GPO, disable a module that has a context menu entry (File Locksmith sounds good for this). Restart PowerToys.
   - [ ] Verify the module is not enabled. (No context menu entry)
   - [ ] Open settings and verify the module is not enabled and you can't enable it.
   - [ ] Try to open File Locksmith directly from the install folder and verify it doesn't run and adds a message to the log saying it didn't run because of GPO.
 * In GPO, disable a module that is a Preview Handler (Markdown Preview is good for this). Restart PowerToys.
   - [ ] Verify the module is not enabled. (Markdown files won't appear in the preview pane)
   - [ ] Open settings and verify the module is not enabled and you can't enable it.
 * Remember to reset all you Settings to Not Configured after the tests, both in Conputer and User Configurations.

## Command Not Found
 * Go to Command Not Found module settings
 - [ ] If you have PowerShell 7.4 installed, confirm that Install PowerShell 7.4 button is not visible and PowerShell 7.4 is shown as detected. If you don't have PowerShell 7.4, Install it by clicking the button and confirm that it's properly installed. Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors.
 - [ ] If you have Microsoft.WinGet.Client installed, confirm that Install Microsoft.WinGet.Client button is not visible and Microsoft.WinGet.Client is shown as detected. If you don't have Microsoft.WinGet.Client, Install it by clicking the button and confirm that it's properly installed. Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors.
 - [ ] Install the Command Not Found module. Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors. Check PowerShell 7 $PROFILE file and confirm Import-Module command is added there. Start new PowerShell 7.4 session and execute "powertoys" (or "atom"). Confirm that suggestion is given to install powertoys (or atom) winget package. (If suggestion is not given, try running the same command few more times, it might take some time for the first time to load the module). Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors.
 - [ ] Uninstall the module. Check Installation logs text box bellow and confirm there are no errors. Check PowerShell 7 $PROFILE file and confirm Import-Module command is removed. Start new PowerShell 7.4 session and confirm no errors are shown on start.
 - [ ] Install module again. Uninstall PowerToys. Check PowerShell 7 $PROFILE file and confirm Import-Module command is removed after installer is done.

## DSC
 * You need to have some prerequisites installed:
   - PowerShell >= 7.2 .
   - PSDesiredStateConfiguration 2.0.7 or higher `Install-Module -Name PSDesiredStateConfiguration`.
   - WinGet [version v1.6.2631 or later](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/releases). (You'll likely have this one already)
 * Open a PowerShell 7 instance and navigate to the sample scripts from PowerToys (`src/dsc/Microsoft.PowerToys.Configure/examples/`).
   - [ ] Run `winget configure .\disableAllModules.dsc.yaml`. Open PowerToys Settings and verify all modules are disabled.
   - [ ] Run `winget configure .\enableAllModules.dsc.yaml`. Open PowerToys Settings and verify all modules are enabled.
   - [ ] Run `winget configure .\configureLauncherPlugins.dsc.yaml`. Open PowerToys Settings and verify all PowerToys Run plugins are enabled, and the Program plugin is not global and its Activation Keyword has changed to "P:".
   - [ ] Run `winget configure .\configuration.dsc.yaml`. Open PowerToys Settings the Settings have been applied. File Locksmith is disabled. Shortcut Guide is disabled with an overlay opacity set to 50. FancyZones is enabled with the Editor hotkey set to "Shift+Ctrl+Alt+F".
   - [ ] If you run a winget configure command above and PowerToys is running, it will eventually close and automatically reopen after the configuration process is done.
   - [ ] If you run a winget configure command above and PowerToys is not running, it won't automatically reopen after the configuration process is done.

## Command Palette
 * Check if Command Palette successfully install/uninstall with PowerToys.
   - [ ] Install PowerToys. Then check if Command Palette exist in the System Settings/App/Installed Apps.
   - [ ] UnInstall PowerToys. Then check if Command Palette doesn't exist in the System Settings/App/Installed Apps.
 * Enable Command Palette in settings and ensure that the hotkey brings up Command Palette
   - [ ] when PowerToys is running unelevated on start-up
   - [ ] when PowerToys is running as admin on start-up
   - [ ] when PowerToys is restarted as admin, by clicking the restart as admin button in settings.
 * Check that each of the plugins is working:
   - [ ] Installed Apps - launch a Win32 application
   - [ ] Installed Apps - launch a Win32 application as admin
   - [ ] Installed Apps - launch a packaged application
   - [ ] Calculator - ensure a mathematical input returns a correct response and is copied on enter.
   - [ ] File Search - open a file on the disk.
   - [ ] File Search - find a file and copy file path.
   - [ ] File Search - find a file and open containing folder.
   - [ ] Run Commands - execute a command. (e.g. `ping google.com`).
   - [ ] Windows Walker - Switch to another opening window.
   - [ ] Windows Walker - Switch to another opening window when powertoys run as admin.
   - [ ] WinGet - Search and install application through WinGet. (eg. `vscode`)
   - [ ] Web Search - Search anything by this extension.
   - [ ] Windows Terminal Profiles - Open profile.
   - [ ] Windows Terminal Profiles - Open profile as Admin.
   - [ ] Windows Settings - Open settings from extension.
   - [ ] Registry - navigate through the registry tree and open registry editor. Enter the action keyword `:` to get the root keys.
   - [ ] Registry - navigate through the registry tree and copy key path.
   - [ ] Windows Service - start, stop, restart windows service.
   - [ ] Time And Date - type `now`, `year`, `week` and verify the result is correct. 
   - [ ] Windows System Command - test `lock`.
   - [ ] Windows System Command - test `empty recycle bin`.
   - [ ] Windows System Command - test `shutdown`.
   - [ ] Windows System Command - Click your network adapter item and paste the result at notepad.
   - [ ] Bookmarks - Add bookmarks to command palette.
   - [ ] Bookmarks - Open your bookmarks (in Command Palette).
 - [ ] Disable Command Palette and ensure that the hotkey doesn't bring up Command Palette.
 - [ ] Test tab navigation.
 * Test Extensions Manager
   - [ ] Enable/disable extensions and verify changes are picked up by Command Palette (Currently not support)
   - [ ] Change `Global hot key` and verify changes are picked up by Command Palette
   - [ ] Change `Alias` and verify changes picked up by Command Palette
   - [ ] Disable all extensions and verify the warning message is shown (Currently not support).